In the previous video we learn how to configure
ssh on cisco routers and mikrotik routers.
So now, we can remote the cisco and mikrotik
router from our computer using ssh.
Well, in this video we will learn how to do
network automation, we will learn about network
automation on cisco routers first.
We will learn about network automation on
mikrotik routers in the next video.
Okay, let's get to the point, this is the
script that we will use in this video
which is to do network automation on cisco routers.
I will also upload this script to the resources
section, so you can download it, but I recommend
you to not copy and paste the code, you need
to write the code by your self, so you can
understand the code easily.
Let’s understand the code, in the first
line, we import paramiko, paramiko is python
library that we are going to use as a ssh
client.
We also need to import time, I will explain
later why we need to import time.
Here we define the ip address, username and
password of the cisco router
We call SSH Client function from paramiko.
Then we connect to the router using the ip
address, username, and password that we have
defined before.
Here, we print that we have successfully connected
to the router, and then do invoke shell.
Here we can see that we send the cisco command
to the router.
In this example I just send a command to configure
loopback interface 0 with ip address 10.1.1.1.
Here you can see that I define time sleep
1, which means that the code will delay for
1 seconds, we need to make the code wait for
1 seconds or the command will not sent to
the router successfully, we will try to remove
the time sleep later and we will see the result.
Here we save the output of the cisco command
that we have sent to the router
and then we print the output to the console.
Last, we need to close the ssh connection
from the router.
Okay Now let’s run the code.
open the command prompt, and go to the directory
where we save the code.
Let’s try to dir to make sure that we are
in the right directory.
Here we can see that we have script.py.
Let’s run the code by command python script.py
Here we can see that we have successfully
login to 192.168.1.3, which is the IP Address
of Cisco Router.
And then we also see that we have successfully
send command to configure loopback interface
0 with ip address 10.1.1.1 to the cisco router.
Let’s go to the cisco router and type show
ip interface brief
here we can see that now we have loopback 0 with ip address 10.1.1.1.
Congratulations!
You are successfully doing your first Network
Automation!
Last for this video, I want to show you how
if I remove the time sleep from the code.
Here remove time sleep.
I will change the loopback interface and
the ip address,
Now save the code, and run it again.
Look, the command is not sent to the router
successfully, let’s go to the cisco router
and type show ip interface brief, we also
not see the interface loopback 1 here.
Now let’s put the time sleep again to the
code.
Save the code, And run it again.
Cool !  the command sent to the router successfully,
let’s make sure again in the cisco router,
now we have interface loopback 1 with IP Address
10.1.1.2 here
Congratulation !  now you are able to write a
simple script for network automation on cisco router
In the next video, we are going to learn simple
script for network automation on mikrotik router
Thankyou for watching and See you on the next
video.